Contents
Step 1: Create the starter Flutter app
Step 2: Use an external package
Step 3: Add a Stateful widget
Step 4: Create an infinite scrolling ListView
Profile or release runs


This guide is part 1 of a two-part codelab. You can find part 2 on Google Developers. Part 1 can also be found on Google Developers.

What you’ll build in part 1

You’ll implement a simple mobile app that generates proposed names for a startup company. The user can select and unselect names, saving the best ones. The code lazily generates names. As the user scrolls, more names are generated. There is no limit to how far a user can scroll.

The animated GIF shows how the app works at the completion of part 1.

What you’ll learn in part 1
How to write a Flutter app that looks natural on both iOS and Android.
Basic structure of a Flutter app.
Finding and using packages to extend functionality.
Using hot reload for a quicker development cycle.
How to implement a stateful widget.
How to create an infinite, lazily loaded list.
In part 2 of this codelab, you’ll add interactivity, modify the app’s theme, and add the ability to navigate to a new screen (called a route in Flutter).
What you'll use
You need two pieces of software to complete this lab: the Flutter SDK and an editor. This codelab assumes Android Studio, but you can use your preferred editor.

You can run this codelab using any of the following devices:

A physical device (Android or iOS) connected to your computer and set to developer mode.
The iOS simulator.
The Android emulator.
Step 1: Create the starter Flutter app

Create a simple, templated Flutter app, using the instructions in Getting Started with your first Flutter app. Name the project startup_namer (instead of myapp).

 Tip: If you don’t see “New Flutter Project” as an option in your IDE, make sure you have the plugins installed for Flutter and Dart.
In this codelab, you’ll mostly be editing lib/main.dart, where the Dart code lives.

Replace the contents of lib/main.dart.
Delete all of the code from lib/main.dart. Replace with the following code, which displays “Hello World” in the center of the screen.

lib/main.dart
content_copy
// Copyright 2018 The Flutter team. All rights reserved.
// Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
// found in the LICENSE file.

import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      title: 'Welcome to Flutter',
      home: Scaffold(
        appBar: AppBar(
          title: Text('Welcome to Flutter'),
        ),
        body: Center(
          child: Text('Hello World'),
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
